Bartholomew JoJo Simpson is a fictional character in the American animated television series The Simpsons and part of the Simpson family.
He is voiced by Nancy Cartwright and first appeared on television in The Tracey Ullman Show short "Good Night" on April 19, 1987.
Groening had been called to pitch a series of shorts based on his comic strip, Life in Hell, but instead decided to create a new set of characters.
While the rest of the characters were named after Groening's family members, Bart's name is an anagram of the word brat.
After appearing on The Tracey Ullman Show for three years, the Simpson family received its own series on Fox, which debuted December 17, 1989.
At ten years old, Bart is the eldest child and only son of Homer and Marge, and the brother of Lisa and Maggie.
Bart's most prominent and popular character traits are his mischievousness, rebelliousness and disrespect for authority.
He has appeared in other media relating to The Simpsons – including video games, The Simpsons Movie, The Simpsons Ride, commercials, and comic books – and inspired an entire line of merchandise.
In casting, Nancy Cartwright originally planned to audition for the role of Lisa, while Yeardley Smith tried out for Bart.
Hallmarks of the character include his chalkboard gags in the opening sequence; his prank calls to Moe; and his catchphrases "Eat my shorts", "¡Ay, caramba!", "Don't have a cow, man!", and "I'm Bart Simpson. Who the hell are you?".
During the first two seasons of The Simpsons, Bart was the show's breakout character and "Bartmania" ensued, spawning Bart Simpson-themed merchandise touting his rebellious attitude and pride at underachieving, which caused many parents and educators to cast him as a bad role model for children.
Around the third season, the series started to focus more on the family as a whole, though Bart still remains a prominent character.
Time named Bart one of the 100 most important people of the 20th century, and he was named "entertainer of the year" in 1990 by Entertainment Weekly.
Nancy Cartwright has won several awards for voicing Bart, including a Primetime Emmy Award in 1992 and an Annie Award in 1995.
-
Kate Seredy was born in 1899, in Budapest, Hungary.
Her father, a teacher, helped her develop an appreciation for books.
After high school she earned an art teacher's diploma from the Academy of Arts in Budapest and also spent time studying in Italy, France, and Germany.
She served as a nurse for two years during World War I, and the pacifist stance she subsequently developed later influenced her writing.
Seredy illustrated two children's books in Hungary before moving to the United States in 1922.
She supported herself in her new homeland by illustrating lamp shades and greeting cards.
As her knowledge of English increased, she found work illustrating textbooks and children's trade books.
Seredy wrote her first book, The Good Master, after an editor suggested she try writing about her childhood in Hungary.
Seredy won the Newbery Medal in 1938 for The White Stag, a book based on legends about the founding of Hungary that her father told her as a child.
-
Born on February 9, 1874, Amy Lowell was the last of the five children of Augustus and Katherine Bigelow Lawrence Lowell, who resided in a mansion on a ten-acre estate in Brookline, Massachusetts.
Privately schooled in Boston until the age of seventeen, Lowell learned little of literature during her formal education.
She fostered her literary interests by reading in the extensive library at home and at the Boston Athenaeum.
Although Lowell dabbled in verse from an early age, it was a chance encounter with Leigh Hunt's Imagination and Fancy in her father's collection that inspired her serious interest in poetry.
During this same interval she discovered the poetry of John Keats, whose work would profoundly influence her aesthetics.
Lowell's lifelong appreciation of Keats's writings, especially their correlation of beauty and human longing, was summed up in her two-volume study of the poet, published in the last year of her life.